CpSc 2120 Fall 2020
Quiz 1 In-Class Part.  30 possible points

Please fill out your solutions in this text file and upload it on
handin; files with upload timestamps beyond the end of lecture will
not be counted.  You can use any resources you want for this quiz
except other humans (although given the time constraint, you are
highly encouraged not to waste time searching online for material; the
questions below have been designed specifically so this won't be a
helpful strategy).  When describing any algorithm, it's ok to be
concise.  You can use either code or English or a mix (if using
English, be as precise as possible).  Whenever you describe an
algorithm, give its running time as well.  Faster algorithms are worth
more points than slower algorithms.

1. Running Times (6 points)

Please write the running time of each example below using Theta()
notation as a function of N.  Assume each one is called with a
positive integer value of N.

(i) void john(int n) { while (n--); }
Theta(N)
(ii) void taylor(int n) { if(n) { taylor(n/2); } }
O(logN)
(iii) void matthew(int n) { if(n) { john(n); matthew(n/2); } }
O(NlogN)
(iv) void jacob(int n) { if(n) { john(n); jacob(n-1); } }
O(N^2)
(v) void tahj(int n) { if(n) { tahj(n-1); tahj(n-1); } }
O(N!)
(vi) void madison(int n) { if(n>=23) { madison(n/2); madison(n/2); } }
O(2logN)



2. Predfind on a Linked List (6 points)

Consider our standard linked list node structure:

struct Node {
  int key;
  Node *next;
};

Please fill in the following function, which should operate like the
"predfind" function we wrote for a BST.  Given the head pointer to a
linked list of distinct keys as well as a value V, it should return a
pointer to the node in the list whose key is the largest among all
keys in the list that are at most V.  If a node in the list exists
with key equal to V, that node should be returned.  As an example, if
the list looks like this:

   4 -> 15 -> 7 -> 43 -> 12 -> 13
(head)

then a call to predfind(head, 9) should return a pointer to the node
with key 7.  If there is no node in the list with key at most V, you
should return NULL.

For full credit on this problem and a general sense of fulfillment in
life, you should write your function recursively.

Node *predfind(Node *head, int V)
{
  if(head == NULL || head->key == k) return head;
  Node * node = predfind(head->next, V);
  if(head->key < V) node == NULL ? head : node;
  else return node;
}


3. Fall Colors (6 points)

You are given as input a file containing N strings representing fall
colors (e.g., "orange"); these strings are listed in arbitrary order.
You are also given the pointer to the root of a binary search tree
with N total nodes, each with a string as its key (this is a standard
binary search tree, where nodes on the left are smaller and nodes on
the right are larger).  You may assume each string is short (at most
12 characters).  Please describe an algorithm that checks if every
_leaf_ in the binary search tree is a fall color.  Remember that for
this and the remaining questions, you can describe your algorithm in
English if you prefer along with or instead of code.

I would start by writing a function very similar to print_inorder,
instead of printing the root's key a conditional statement would 
check if the root has no children, if so it would check that the
key is in a hash of fall colors.

4. Like 2150, But More Fun (6 + 6 points)

The students in 2150 just finished a project where they had to
implement a tic-tac-toe game on a board of size 8x8.  In an effort
that will surely in no way trigger these students, we've re-imagined
below what a more algorithmically fun version of this project could
have been.

(a) Minecraft tic-tac-toe. Consider 3D game board of size N x N x N.
N of the cells in this board are occupied by X's.  You are told their
locations as input, but not in any particular order.  Each location is
described by 3 coordinates (just like the three indices you would use
to address a location in a 3D array).  Please describe an algorithm
that computes the longest consecutive run of X's.  For simplicity, we
don't count diagonals here, so a "run" consists of series of X's that
have consecutive values in one coordinate, while they agree in the
other two coordinates.  For example, X's at locations (2, 2, 7), (2, 3,
7), (2, 4, 7), and (2, 5, 7) form a "run", since they have consecutive
values (2, 3, 4, 5) in the second coordinate, and they have consistent
values in the first and third coordinates (all have the common value 2
as the first coordinate and 7 as the third coordinate).

This is probably either N^2 or N^3 but I've run out of time: At each occupied
cell the function would hold two coordinates equal and check if there is a run
on the non-equal if an empty cell is found the loop moves on to the next occupied
cell

(b) Expanding tic-tac-toe.  Consider a 1D game board of length N.  The
"X" player and "O" player take turns.  In the first move, the "X"
player can place a single X on one of the N cells in the game board.
In the next move, the "O" player places Os on two consecutive empty
positions on the board.  In the next move, the "X" player places Xs on
three consecutive empty positions on the board.  In general, each step
requires a player to cover a consecutive segment of the board with a
run of pieces, and the size of this segment increments at each move.
A player loses if the run they attempt to play overlaps with any other
piece.  You want to design an algorithm that detects when a loss
occurs, and then terminates.  The input to your algorithm is a stream
of integers specifying where players move.  For example, if the first
integer in the input stream is 7, this means an X is played at
location 7.  If the next integer is 3, this means Os are played at
locations 3 and 4.  If the next integer is 10, this means Xs are
played at locations 10, 11, and 12.  In general, each integer
specifies the starting position of each run.

This sounds like hashing and a collision causes a loss
So, the game board itself will be a hash table.
There will be an int which couts up by one on each turns
after taking a turn as input a for loop in range 0 - counter
will attemp an insert at the chosen index and all in the range
of the amount of turns a player needs to take. If a space is occupied
the win is given to the other player.

